JavaScript is a cross-platform, object-oriented scripting language. JavaScript is extremely popular for a variety of reasons. It is a small and lightweight language allowing maximum flexibility for developers to take it in a bunch of different directions. JavaScript lives inside a host environment (a web broswer or Node server), it can be connected to the object of these environments to provide programmitic control over them.

JavaScript variable are containers for storing data values - imagine a cup you fill with coffee, the cup holds the coffee, a variable holds a value. All JavaScript variables must be identifed with unique names. These unique names are called identifiers.

Assignment operators assign values to JavaScript variables - our cup can now have coffee poured in it, giving our variable a value to hold. The = assignment operator assigns a value to a variable.

Data types are an important concept; to be able to operate on variables you need to know the data type. There are six data types that are JavaScript primitives: Boolean - or null - aka nothing; Number - or String - Array - and Object -

When you write code, you want to perform different actions for different decisions - hitting different code blocks based on values or conditions that have been met. You can use conditional statements in your code to accomplish this. There are the following conditional statements: a specified condition is true, do this code in our code block; to specify a new condition to test, if the first condition is false; we execute this block of code;

There are many different kinds of loops in every programming language, but they all essentially do the same thing: they will repeat an action some number of times. Imagine you have to run a mile, well you run around the track four times and then you stop. Thats a loop!

Functions are an encaspulation of a code block. When we call our function this will run that code block. Think of it as a list of instructions. As an example imagine we are putting together a desk from Ikea, we open up the instruction manual and get started, first we screw the legs to the table top; next we place the table the right way up. Done! We finished our instructions. Sadly there are a ton more tables to do so lets call our function over and over and over again.